# Introduction

Blockoid is a thin ClojureScript wrapping of the Blockly library, which provides tools for building Scratch-like visual language interfaces. Blockoid exposes only the most basic of Blockly functions; but you can easily access the rest of its rather large API through Javascript interop. Better yet, expose them yourself and make a pull request. 

Blockoid allows you to combine the block UI paradigm with a powerful symbol manipulation language, so you can do complex things such as compile a block structure to a textual language, all within a web browser. 

## Usage

Add to dependencies:

    [org.parkerici/blockoid "0.0.2"] 

In your code, add the `require`:

```clojure
(ns ...
  (:require [org.parkerici.blockoid.core :as blockoid]))
```

### Initializing  a Blockly workspace

This is done by calling the `define-workspace` fn which takes the following arguments:

`div`:  Name of the HTML div element in which to inject Blockly
`toolbox-xml`: XML in EDN format. Usually generated by `toolbox`. 
`options`: map of additional options to Blockly՚s `inject` method, eg: `{:zoom true}`. See https://developers.google.com/blockly/guides/get-started/web#configuration
`change-handler`: a fn of one argument (event) that gets called on any changes to the workspace. "

### Toolbox format

Blockly toolboxes are [defined in XML](https://developers.google.com/blockly/guides/configure/web/toolbox). You can supply the XML directly (in EDN form) or use the `toolbox` fn to compile XML from a more compact toolbox representation. See the (example toolbox)[example/src/cljs/org/parkerici/blockoid_example/core.cljs#L30].

`[:toolbox <contents>]`: This is the outer element. 
`[:category <name> <props> <contents>]`: Defines a category. <props> is a map of attributes as defined by Blockly (eg {`:colour “blue”}`) .
	`[:block <name> <props> <subs>]`: Defines a block. <props> is a map of attributes as defined by Blockly. <subs> is zero or more `:field` or `:value` specifications
`[:field <name> <value>]`: Defines a value for a named field of a block
`[:value <name> <subs>]`: Define an inner block for a named field of the outer block.  
`[:next <block>]`: Define a block to fit into the next field of the outer block.
`[:sep]`: Insert a graphic separator element.




```clojure
(def demo-toolbox
  [:toolbox
   [:category "Logic" {:colour "red"}
    [:category "if" {}
     [:block "controls_if"]
    [:category "Boolean" {:colour "%{BKY_LOGIC_HUE}"}
     [:block "logic_compare"]
     [:block "logic_operation"]
     [:block "logic_negate"]
     [:block "logic_boolean"]
```

###  Custom Blocks

Blockly allows you to define custom blocks using JSON. The Blockly API for this is `define-blocks`, a very thin layer that just translated EDN definitions to JSON and passed them in. See (the Blockly documentation)[https://developers.google.com/blockly/guides/configure/web/custom-blocks] for details on block specifications. 

### Retrieving block structure

`workspace-xml` returns the workspace contents as parsed XML (EDN). An alternative `workspace-selected-xml` returns just the structure containing the selected block, if any.

### Compact format

[ sigh, just realized this and toolbox format should be the same...do I want to do that before release? Probably. ]




### Responsive UI

To respond to user changes to the Blockly workspace, you supply a handler when you call `define-workspace`. This gets called with a js event object, and if you are using (re-frame)[https://github.com/Day8/re-frame] (recommended!) it can just `dispatch` a re-frame event. 

Blocky has an elaborate mechanism for code generation, which Blockoid completely ignores, preferring that you deal with it by having the change event handler call `get-workspace-xml`  and `compact`. The theory is that Blockoid provides a Clojure-native representation of the block structure, allowing the developer to do code generation in Clojure, generally a good choice for complex language transformations. It may be possible to make use of the Blockly generation framework, but I haven՚t tried. 
